Design
Dylan Steele

I first began my solving the problem of creating a crossword puzzle by examining the process of solving a crossword puzzle, something that many people are familiar with, in order to replicate as much of that process as I could in my application. I used the New York Times Crossword webapp as a basis for controls and general aesthetics. From this, I gathered that I needed to be able to tab through the words, use arrow keys to navigate around the board, display the currently selected letter and word, change the directon of the selected word, and check if a word was correct. To further this project, and because I know how hard it is to think of words for a crossword, I decided to implement a word suggestion feature that would display to users possible words that could fit into the board.

In order to get a list of words, I used the third-party module Wordnik, which allows users to use an API to query for words of certain length and with certain letters. (Since I use an API, my project requires an internet connection. I check for this when the user creates a new puzzle.) From there, I would check if each word could fit into the intersecting words to make sure that the puzzle would only contain legitimate words. The rest of the user interface is based upon the New York Times Crossword online site. A user is prompted with a menu screen when first opening up the application to either start making a new puzzle or enter the help screen. Upon starting a new puzzle, users will see a blank crossword board on the left, a title on top, a word suggestion box on the right, and a button on the bottom. This mimics the customary organization of a crossword for most newspapers and online puzzle-game websites. After clicking on the 'Enter Hints' button, users will see the word suggestions box change to two boxes for Across and Down hints, where they can enter in their hints for each word on the puzzle (which is still showing for reference, but can no longer be edited). Now, users will see two buttons for saving (one with the solution and one without) so they can share their puzzle or save it for later. The user can always return to the main menu by clicking the main menu button.